Author: Mia Dai
# Related Papers
Mitocarta paper: https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/49/D1/D1541/5974091?login=true
cell painting: https://www.nature.com/articles/nprot.2016.105
# Image Data
1. Picture data are 16 bit. Unlike standard 8-bit images, which can show 256 levels of brightness (0–255), a 16-bit image has a much larger range of 65,536 levels (0–65,535). This allows for a lot more detail and subtle gradations in intensity. However, typical image viewers are optimized for 8-bit images and may not automatically adjust for the higher range in 16-bit images, causing the image to appear very dark or even black. This means that, in the context of a 16-bit range, these pixels have very low intensity relative to the maximum possible value. Also the positive ones are usually <1000. As a result, they are not easily visible when the image is displayed without adjustments.
2. The image matrices are {(2048, 2048), (512, 512), (1024, 1024)}. The value of integer pixel is in the range of 0–65,535.
3. FIJI (an image processing software) allows you to adjust the display range, or "thresholding" values, to bring out details in the image. By setting the display to focus on the lower intensity range where the positive signals are (e.g., 0–1,000), you can make these subtle details visible. This adjustment effectively scales the brightness levels to better match what you’re trying to visualize, making it easier to see the relevant features.
4. To show observable raw images, set vmax = 1000. To show observable segmented images, set vmax = 1. The key idea is to find the maximum pixel value of the image.

# Questions 
1. do the cell names match the tif names.
2. In the image of the 6th cell, I can't tell where the nucleus is.
3. confirm fission gene makes mitochondria elongated and fussion gene makes mitochondria ?
4. If you knock out one fission gene, will the other fission gene still work? 
5. Can you show me some pictures that shows the difference between mitochondrial fusion and the non-fission and non-fussion mitochondria?
6. The first cell?
7. Can I distinguish each mitochondria? In the data set, there is a column called cell_mito_count.
8. Solved. I am thinking that the mitochondria shape in the raw image and the segmented image should look similar. However, they look totally different. Solved: `listdir()` function may not return the list in the order that I see. 

# Tools
Mito Hacker
1. Cell Catcher can automatically identify, separate and isolate individual cells from 2D multicell RGB images.
2. Mito Catcher uses the statistical distribution of pixel intensities across the mitochondrial network to detect and remove background noise from the cell and segment the mitochondrial network. Segmented mitochondrial networks are exported in binary and color formats, each of which can be used to train independent ML or NN models. 
3. MiA uses the binarized mitochondrial network generated by Mito Catcher to perform greater than 100 mitochondria-level and cell-level morphometric measurements.

# Ideas
1. Using the segmented mitochondria images, we can create a graph containing the nodes and the edges of the mitochondria structure to depict the shape of mitochondria. 
2. I can calculate the diameter of the mitochondria. 
3. Branch length and branch angle cell_median_mito_std_branch_length_ and mean branch length and cell_mean_mito_perimeter_(pixels), cell_mito_count?
